Automation Testing or Test Automation is a software testing technique that performs 
	using special automated testing software tools to execute a test case suite. 
	On the contrary, Manual Testing is performed by a human sitting in front of a computer carefully executing the test steps.


	The automation testing software can also enter test data into the System Under Test, compare expected and actual results and 
		generate detailed test reports. 

Software Test Automation demands considerable investments of money and resources.

Why Test Automation?

	Manual Testing of all workflows, all fields, all negative scenarios is time and money consuming
	It is difficult to test for multilingual sites manually
	Test Automation in software testing does not require Human intervention. You can run automated test unattended (overnight)
	Test Automation increases the speed of test execution
	Automation helps increase Test Coverage
	Manual Testing can become boring and hence error-prone.


Which Test Cases to Automate?

	High Risk - Business Critical test cases
	Test cases that are repeatedly executed
	Test Cases that are very tedious or difficult to perform manually
	Test Cases which are time-consuming
	
	The following category of test cases are not suitable for automation:

		Test Cases that are newly designed and not executed manually at least once
		Test Cases for which the requirements are frequently changing
		Test cases which are executed on an ad-hoc basis.

Automated Testing Process:
	
	Step 1) Test Tool Selection
	Step 2) Define scope of Automation
	Step 3) Planning, Design and Development
	Step 4) Test Execution
	Step 5) Maintenance



Test tool selection
	Test Tool selection largely depends on the technology the Application Under Test is built on

	Define the scope of Automation
		The features that are important for the business
		Scenarios which have a large amount of data
		Common functionalities across applications
		Technical feasibility
		The extent to which business components are reused
		The complexity of test cases
		Ability to use the same test cases for cross-browser testing

	Planning, Design, and Development
		Automation tools selected
		Framework design and its features
		In-Scope and Out-of-scope items of automation
		Automation testbed preparation
		Schedule and Timeline of scripting and execution
		Deliverables of Automation Testing


	Test Execution
		Automation Scripts are executed during this phase. 
		The scripts need input test data before there are set to run. 
		Once executed they provide detailed test reports.

	
	Framework for Automation
		Maintaining consistency of Testing
		Improves test structuring
		Minimum usage of code
		Less Maintenance of code
		Improve re-usability
		Non Technical testers can be involved in code
		The training period of using the tool can be reduced
		Involves Data wherever appropriate
		
	Benefits of Automation Testing
		70% faster than the manual testing
		Wider test coverage of application features
		Reliable in results
		Ensure Consistency
		Saves Time and Cost
		Improves accuracy
		Human Intervention is not required while execution
		Increases Efficiency
		Better speed in executing tests
		Re-usable test scripts
		Test Frequently and thoroughly
		More cycle of execution can be achieved through automation
		Early time to market

	Types of Automated Testing
		Smoke Testing
		Unit Testing
		Integration Testing
		Functional Testing
		Keyword Testing
		Regression Testing
		Data Driven Testing
		Black Box Testing

	How to Choose an Automation Tool?
		Environment Support
		Ease of use
		Testing of Database
		Object identification
		Image Testing
		Error Recovery Testing
		Object Mapping
		Scripting Language Used
		Support for various types of test - including functional, test management, mobile, etc...
		Support for multiple testing frameworks
		Easy to debug the automation software scripts
		Ability to recognize objects in any environment
		Extensive test reports and results
		Minimize training cost of selected tools


	Automation Testing Tools
		Testim
		LambdaTest
		Selenium
		 It is a software testing tool used for Regression Testing. 
		 It is an open source testing tool that provides playback and recording facility for Regression Testing. 

